# New York Tech Meetup

Last week, [Mitch][mitch] and I took a quick trip to NYC to check out
the [New York Tech Meetup][nytm]. If it's the first time you've heard of
it, go check out some [old meetups][past]. NYTM was started in 2004 by
one of the founders of [Meetup.com][meetup] for the purpose of letting
budding companies, entrepreneur and hackers demo new projects, sites,
apps and other things.

The format is pretty simple: three five minute demos by three different
individuals or organizations followed by five minutes of question and
answers for the whole group. It gets repeated a few times (I think we
saw three sets of demos) during the event. There's also a "Hack of the
Month", where someone demos something interesting they've been working
on, too.

There are a couple of rules, though. First, no pitches or slides. Only
working projects. Second, you're not allowed to ask: "What's your
business model?"

I like these rules. Too often, I hear someone with an idea tell me it's
the next big thing. All they need is a developer and fame and riches
will appear. It's a bunch of junk and I'm sick of hearing it, frankly.

What's different about NYTM is that there is a working demo. The
presenters have figured out a way to get beyond the asking stage and are
well in to the building stage. As a developer, this is exciting to me. I
learned to code on my own, so I'm always excited about getting others
interested.

I was introduced to this scene by [Erin Kidwell][erin]. She'd been
involved in [Girl Develop It][gdi] here in Cincinnati, which frequently
took her to NYC. She's the reason we were able to get tickets -- thanks
for that!

Erin also helped organize [QCMerge][qcmerge] this year. One of the
speakers she suggested was [Nate Westheimer][innonate], who's currently
the Executive Director of NYTM and a Cincinnati native. You can check
out his entire talk right here:

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/r7ufdRVEHyY" frameborder="0"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

Basically, Nate gave his take on how to cultivate a vibrant tech
community in our city. It's something I'm also passionate about, so
hearing the talk motivated me to continue working here in Cincinnati. I
want to grow our entire tech community -- not just the startup
community, so it's important to note the difference.

I believe that startups are a part of a larger community. They're
fledgling businesses. Usually, we're referring to the tech sector.
There's a lot of emphasis and excitement on them right now, which is
good. It's also important to note that they're normally still in the
idea phase, though.

A plant needs soil, water and sunlight to grow. Startups do too.
Startups benefit from a diverse and available technology ecosystem. The
more developers, designers, user experience experts and chief technology
officers available, the better the whole ecosystem is for everyone.

At Gaslight, we've been called some crazy things. I've heard us called
an "enemy" to startups, since we work reasonable hours with good
salaries. As long as we see each other in this way, we'll continue to do
mediocre work as a whole community.

Part of the issue is with positioning. For a while, we thought we could
do billable work with local startups. I've since left that idea behind.
We've found great clients who understand the ups and downs of software
development, which is exciting. We've also learned more about our role
in this local community. We're not here to do billable work. We're here
to teach and train. We're here to offer our space, our knowledge and
expertise. We're here to guide and counsel. We're in it for the long
haul, not short term gains.

Now that we realize that, we're in a great place to mentor and guide
startups to a sustainable existence.

The real purpose of the trip was to participate in the audience and see
how things work. I'm interested in bringing something similar to
Cincinnati, so checking out another group was a great introduction.

[mitch]: https://twitter.com/too_mitch
[erin]: https://twitter.com/erinmkidwell
[innonate]: https://twitter.com/innonate
[nytm]: http://nytm.org
[past]: http://nytm.org/events
[qcmerge]: http://qcmerge.com
[meetup]: http://meetup.com
[gdi]: http://girldevelopit.com

